---
layout: post
title: Writing
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
author: sirsean
---
I&#39;ve long noticed that when I&#39;m writing an email, my voice comes out better than when I&#39;m writing a blog. It seems to me that this has to do with the idea of an intended audience -- when writing an email, I&#39;m writing <i>to</i> someone, but when writing a blog I&#39;m just writing and the audience is &quot;everyone.&quot; (Though in reality it&#39;s more like &quot;no-one.&quot;)<div>  <br /></div><div>I&#39;ve had this thought in the past and it&#39;s never made any difference for me. Whenever I sit down and start writing a blog entry, my &quot;voiceless&quot; voice comes out and it doesn&#39;t sound like me any more. Personally, I find this unacceptable. I simply need to do a better job of writing blogs like I do emails, even if I come off more insulting, less understandable, and more opaque. I think it&#39;ll be for the best.</div>  <div><br /></div><div>Most people I read online don&#39;t seem to have this problem, which leads me to wonder what my problem might be. I guess it&#39;s that to me this feels like &quot;public speaking,&quot; as opposed to &quot;talking to somebody you know,&quot; and I see a big difference between those two acts*.</div>  <div><br /></div><div>* Although I&#39;m good at neither, just for the record.</div><div><br /></div><div>Maybe what I need to do is not &quot;pretend&quot; that I&#39;m talking to one person, but instead just talk for myself. As if, say, I&#39;m talking to myself. I do that often*, and maybe that&#39;d be the best way to bring out my voice in online writing.</div>  <div><br /></div><div>* In my head. I&#39;m not crazy.</div><div><br /></div><div>I don&#39;t think there&#39;s a single solution to this issue (is there ever?), but I want to solve it for myself so my online writing doesn&#39;t seem so foreign to me.</div><p style="font-size: 10px;">  <a href="http://posterous.com">Posted via email</a>   from <a href="http://sirsean.posterous.com/writing-135">sirsean.posterous</a>  </p>
